SIM Voleon is a software development system, in the form of an add-on
library to the Coin library. SIM Voleon complements Coin's
capabilities for polygon-based rendering with visualization of
volumetric data sets, by providing so-called "volume rendering"
technology.

Volumetric data is often the natural format to use for various
purposes in scientific and engineering visualization process. This is
often due to how data is collected from such equipment.

One example is seismic data from measurements below the sea-floor, as
done in the oil & gas industry to locate pockets of hydrocarbons.
Another example is medical scanning equipment, from sources such as
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR/MR), Computer Tomography (CT) and
ultrasound. These data collection methods gathers data in the form of
point measurements, which does not always lend itself well to
visualization in the form of polygon primitives.

SIM Voleon provides the technology to render such volumetric data
sets, to modify their color mappings and transparency settings to
e.g. visualize internal structures, to interact with the data (for
querying positions and data values), and to integrate volume data with
the traditional polygon-based geometric primitives of the core Coin
library.

The framework for employing the SIM Voleon library is the same as for
ordinary Coin applications: SIM Voleon provides a set of new scene
graph nodes to supplement Coin with the new capabilities of volume
rendering.

This makes it a straight-forward task to add basic volume rendering to
your application, and the data can easily be manipulated through
existing interaction features, like manipulators, viewers and widgets.
